workshop/content/08_custom_certs.adoc, before:

== Create and use custom certificate
Before using your own certificate, you need to tell the operator that it will be managed by you.

. In your Quay Registry yaml, set `kind: tls` to `managed: false:`
+
[source,sh]
----
 - kind: tls
    managed: false
----
+
[cols="1a",grid=none,width=80%]
|===
^| image::images/tlsfalse.png[link=images/tlsfalse.png,window=_blank]
^| Figure 8.1 - Change TLS to managed
^| [small]#Click on image to view large size#
|===

. Click Save

. In the Events tab you can see this message now
+
[source,sh]
----
required component `tls` marked as unmanaged, but `configBundleSecret` is missing necessary fields
----

=== Create custom certificate 

*Run the following commands on your laptop and not on the browser based terminal*

. Create an openssl.cnf file with below contents, make sure to update the DNS.1 field with your Quay registry hostname
+
[source,sh]
----
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
[req_distinguished_name]
[ v3_req ]
basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
DNS.1 = quay.apps.cluster-dv82w.dv82w.sandbox2348.opentlc.com
----
+
NOTE: make sure to change the DNS.1 field appropriately as per your lab environment

. Create a Certificate Authority

.. Generate the root CA key:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl genrsa -out rootCA.key 2048
----
.. Generate the root CA cert:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key rootCA.key -sha256 -days 1024 -out rootCA.pem
----
Enter the information that will be incorporated into your certificate request, including the server hostname, for example:
+
[source,sh]
----
Country Name (2 letter code) [XX]:IN
State or Province Name (full name) []:KARNATAKA
Locality Name (eg, city) [Default City]:BANGALORE
Organization Name (eg, company) [Default Company Ltd]:QUAY
Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:TRAINING
Common Name (eg, your name or your server's hostname) []:quay.apps.cluster-dv82w.dv82w.sandbox2348.opentlc.com
Email Address []:
----
+
This creates the following files
+
[source,sh]
----
[nroy@nealwork quay]$ ls
rootCA.key  rootCA.pem
----


. Sign a certificate
+
.. Generate the server key:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl genrsa -out ssl.key 2048
----
.. Generate a signing request:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl req -new -key ssl.key -out ssl.csr
----
Enter the information that will be incorporated into your certificate request, including the server hostname, for example:
+
[source,sh]
----
Country Name (2 letter code) [XX]:IN
State or Province Name (full name) []:KARNATAKA
Locality Name (eg, city) [Default City]:BANGALORE
Organization Name (eg, company) [Default Company Ltd]:QUAY
Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:TRAINING
Common Name (eg, your name or your server's hostname) []:quay.apps.cluster-dv82w.dv82w.sandbox2348.opentlc.com
Email Address []:


Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
to be sent with your certificate request
A challenge password []:
An optional company name []:
----

. Use the configuration file to generate the certificate ssl.cert:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl x509 -req -in ssl.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -CAcreateserial -out ssl.cert -days 356 -extensions v3_req -extfile openssl.cnf
----


. Upload the cert and key file in the Quay config editor. Click Edit Fields to make the fields editable and then click on `Choose File` button to upload the cert and key files from your local machine
+
[cols="1a",grid=none,width=80%]
|===
^| image::images/tlsupload.png[link=images/tlsupload.png,window=_blank]
^| Figure 8.2 - Upload custom certificates in the config editor
^| [small]#Click on image to view large size#
|===

. Click `Validate Configuration Changes` and `Reconfigure quay`

. In your OpenShift Console wait for the `example-registry` Conditions to become *Available -> True* again

Commit message:

improve instructions for custom cert

workshop/content/08_custom_certs.adoc, after:

== Create and use custom certificate
Before using your own certificate, you need to tell the operator that it will be managed by you.

. In your Quay Registry yaml, set `kind: tls` to `managed: false:`
+
[source,sh]
----
 - kind: tls
    managed: false
----
+
[cols="1a",grid=none,width=80%]
|===
^| image::images/tlsfalse.png[link=images/tlsfalse.png,window=_blank]
^| Figure 8.1 - Change TLS to managed
^| [small]#Click on image to view large size#
|===

. Click Save

. In the Events tab you can see this message now
+
[source,sh]
----
required component `tls` marked as unmanaged, but `configBundleSecret` is missing necessary fields
----

=== Create custom certificate 

*Run the following commands on your laptop and not on the browser based terminal*

. Create an openssl.cnf file with below contents, make sure to update the DNS.1 field with your Quay registry hostname
+
[source,sh]
----
[req]
req_extensions = v3_req
distinguished_name = req_distinguished_name
[req_distinguished_name]
[ v3_req ]
basicConstraints = CA:FALSE
keyUsage = nonRepudiation, digitalSignature, keyEncipherment
subjectAltName = @alt_names
[alt_names]
DNS.1 = quay.apps.cluster-dv82w.dv82w.sandbox2348.opentlc.com
----
+
NOTE: make sure to change the DNS.1 field appropriately as per your lab environment

. Create a Certificate Authority

.. Generate the root CA key:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl genrsa -out rootCA.key 2048
----
.. Generate the root CA cert:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -key rootCA.key -sha256 -days 1024 -out rootCA.pem
----
Enter the information that will be incorporated into your certificate request, including the server hostname, for example:
+
[source,sh]
----
Country Name (2 letter code) [XX]:IN
State or Province Name (full name) []:KARNATAKA
Locality Name (eg, city) [Default City]:BANGALORE
Organization Name (eg, company) [Default Company Ltd]:QUAY
Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:TRAINING
Common Name (eg, your name or your server's hostname) []:quay.apps.cluster-dv82w.dv82w.sandbox2348.opentlc.com
Email Address []:
----
+
This creates the following files
+
[source,sh]
----
[nroy@nealwork quay]$ ls
rootCA.key  rootCA.pem
----


. Sign a certificate
+
.. Generate the server key:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl genrsa -out ssl.key 2048
----
.. Generate a signing request:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl req -new -key ssl.key -out ssl.csr
----
Enter the information that will be incorporated into your certificate request, including the server hostname, for example:
+
[source,sh]
----
Country Name (2 letter code) [XX]:IN
State or Province Name (full name) []:KARNATAKA
Locality Name (eg, city) [Default City]:BANGALORE
Organization Name (eg, company) [Default Company Ltd]:QUAY
Organizational Unit Name (eg, section) []:TRAINING
Common Name (eg, your name or your server's hostname) []:quay.apps.cluster-dv82w.dv82w.sandbox2348.opentlc.com
Email Address []:


Please enter the following 'extra' attributes
to be sent with your certificate request
A challenge password []:
An optional company name []:
----

. Use the configuration file to generate the certificate ssl.cert:
+
[source,sh]
----
$ openssl x509 -req -in ssl.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -CAcreateserial -out ssl.cert -days 356 -extensions v3_req -extfile openssl.cnf
----

. This will generate the required files you need
+
[source,sh]
----
[nroy@nealwork quay]$ ls ssl.{cert,key}
ssl.cert  ssl.key
----

=== Upload your custom certificate and key using the Quay config editor

. Open the Quay config editor and navigate to the `Server Configuration` section.

. Click `Edit Fields` to make the fields editable 

. Select `Red Hat Quay handles TLS` from the dropdown of *TLS*

. Click on `Choose File` buttons to upload the cert and key files from your local machine. Please see the screenshot for reference
+
[cols="1a",grid=none,width=80%]
|===
^| image::images/tlsupload.png[link=images/tlsupload.png,window=_blank]
^| Figure 8.2 - Upload custom certificates in the config editor
^| [small]#Click on image to view large size#
|===

. Click the `Validate Configuration Changes` button

. Click the `Reconfigure quay` button

. In your OpenShift Console wait for the `example-registry` Conditions to become *Available -> True* again

. Try opening your Quay registry endpoint again, you should see a `Not secure` warning on your browser confirming that your self signed certificate is being used.
